MAS->Multi-agent systems:

It is a collection of multiple ai agents that collaboratively work towards solving a problem
-> each of those agents individual role and capabilities
-> llms are the heart of ai agents, they help in reasoning, planning and performing tasks
-> agents share knowledge with each other

Architecture of mas:
Centralised network: a central manager manages the agent interaction. They have a global knowledge base. But It has scalability issues and a single point of failure

Decentralised network: agents share data locally with neighbours

Structure in mas:
Hierarchical: tree-like
Holonic: sub agents part of bigger agents
Coalition: temporary grouping of agents for specific goals. Will get disbanded after completion of goals.
Teams: permanent teams of agents working towards a goal.


Multiagent architectures:
network : a fully connected graph. Each agent decides with other to call next
Supervisor: a central llm decides which agent to call next. Easier to parallelly execute agents
Supervisor (tool calling): agents act as tools. It follows a ReAct like pattern
Hierarchical: its has a multi-tiered flow. Duiatble for organising teams within the agents,
Custom workflow: it has partial dynamic routing. They static edges defined in the graph.


Handoff between agents:

In langraph, each agents are denoted as graph nodes. So each of them have a command to route to the next agent or update the graph state. Additionally, handoffs can also be used as tools.


What is A2A?
 Agent2agent is a comminuincation standard that allows diff agents to talk to each other and work

It lets us use multiple specialized agents together to collaborate on tasks. It can let multiple agents have a discussion among themselves to come down at a common goal.

A2a gives:
Common communication format
Agent discovery
Task management workflows
Supports diff data types
Security and asych support


In agentic systems agents to tool/resources communications are handled by MCP. ie tool calling are done by mcp

Mcp standardizes how agents connect to tools and apis

Mcp features:
They define tool capabilities and structure
They call apis, query db etc


A2a is mainly abt agent-agent relationship but mcp is agent-tool relationship 
